Resources/doc/configuration_reference.md, before:

FOSOAuthServerBundle Configuration Reference
============================================

All available configuration options are listed below with their default values.

    fos_oauth_server:
        db_driver:                  ~ # Required. Available: mongodb, orm, propel
        client_class:               ~ # Required
        access_token_class:         ~ # Required
        refresh_token_class:        ~ # Required
        auth_code_class:            ~ # Required
        model_manager_name:         ~ # change it to the name of your entity/document manager if you don't want to use the default one.
        authorize:
            form:
                type:               fos_oauth_server_authorize
                handler:            fos_oauth_server.authorize.form.handler.default
                name:               fos_oauth_server_authorize_form
                validation_groups:

                    # Defaults:
                    - Authorize
                    - Default
        service:
            storage:                fos_oauth_server.storage.default
            user_provider:          ~
            client_manager:         fos_oauth_server.client_manager.default
            access_token_manager:   fos_oauth_server.access_token_manager.default
            refresh_token_manager:  fos_oauth_server.refresh_token_manager.default
            auth_code_manager:      fos_oauth_server.auth_code_manager.default
            options:
                # Prototype
                key:                []

                # Example
                # supported_scopes: string

        template:
            engine:                 twig


[Back to index](index.md)

Commit message:

Added: details of options passed to oauth2-php lib

Resources/doc/configuration_reference.md, after:

FOSOAuthServerBundle Configuration Reference
============================================

All available configuration options are listed below with their default values.

    fos_oauth_server:
        db_driver:                  ~ # Required. Available: mongodb, orm, propel
        client_class:               ~ # Required
        access_token_class:         ~ # Required
        refresh_token_class:        ~ # Required
        auth_code_class:            ~ # Required
        model_manager_name:         ~ # change it to the name of your entity/document manager if you don't want to use the default one.
        authorize:
            form:
                type:               fos_oauth_server_authorize
                handler:            fos_oauth_server.authorize.form.handler.default
                name:               fos_oauth_server_authorize_form
                validation_groups:

                    # Defaults:
                    - Authorize
                    - Default
        service:
            storage:                fos_oauth_server.storage.default
            user_provider:          ~
            client_manager:         fos_oauth_server.client_manager.default
            access_token_manager:   fos_oauth_server.access_token_manager.default
            refresh_token_manager:  fos_oauth_server.refresh_token_manager.default
            auth_code_manager:      fos_oauth_server.auth_code_manager.default
            options:
                # Prototype
                key:                []

                # Example
                # supported_scopes: string

                # Changing tokens and authcode lifetime
                #access_token_lifetime: 3600
                #refresh_token_lifetime: 1209600
                #auth_code_lifetime: 30
                
                # Token type to respond with. Currently only "Bearer" supported.
                #token_type: string

                #realm:

                # Enforce redirect_uri on input for both authorize and token steps.
                #enforce_redirect: true or false

                # Enforce state to be passed in authorization (see RFC 6749, section 10.12)
                #enforce_state: true or false
        template:
            engine:                 twig


[Back to index](index.md)
